Blog: Add 2026-07-03 AI newsletter (#336)
posit-dev/open-source-website: content/blog/ai-newsletter-05/index.md

We understand that the names are confusing! Our hope is that the transition state will be over soon and the confusion will lessen. If you want to understand why we gave different assistants very similar names, read this blog post from Posit CTO Joe Cheng: [A brief and biased history of Posit data science agents](https://opensource.posit.co/blog/2026-06-11_history-of-posit-data-science-agents/). 

Posit Assistant works with the same providers as Positron Assistant. If you have a working provider setup with Positron Assistant, you'll be able to use that same setup with Posit Assistant. You can read more about available providers [here](https://assistant.posit.co/docs/downloads/positron/). 

### Package updates

* [raghilda v0.2](https://opensource.posit.co/blog/2026-07-01_raghilda-0-2-0/), a Python package for Retrieval Augmented Generation, is now on PyPI. This release, among other things, broadens support for crawling sites.
* [debrief](https://opensource.posit.co/blog/2026-06-22_debrief-0-1-0/), an R package for LLM-friendly profiling, is now on CRAN. debrief turns profvis profiling output into text-based summaries, allowing AI agents to optimize R code more effectively.

> [^1]: One interface we didn't mention here is 'custom agents,' a concept popularized by GitHub Copilot and now appearing under various names. These bundle some combination of prompts and tools (sometimes gathered via MCP). We'd reach for the primitives above first, which are open standards that are broadly supported across most agent platforms and thus can be shared and migrated more easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^1]: One interface we didn't mention here is 'custom agents,' a concept popularized by GitHub Copilot and now appearing under various names. These bundle some combination of prompts and tools (sometimes gathered via MCP). We'd reach for the options mentioned above first, which are open standards that are broadly supported across most agent platforms and thus can be shared and migrated more easily.
```
